# Victims of Auschwitz — Design Description


The project consisted of three main steps: obtaining the data, cleaning the data, and representing the data. The data came from the Central Database of Shoah Victims’ Names, available at yvng.yadvashem.org, filtered by location of death (Auschwitz) and by year of death (performed six times from 1940 to 1945). To get the data off the website (where it is stored as a table often thousands of pages long), I used Selenium, a web-based automation tool, to physically click through each page and read the table for pre-war locations  and birth date. The data was stored as an array of dictionaries and exported as a csv containing birth years and pre-war locations. To clean the data, I first deleted any data points that did not contain both a year of birth and a pre-war location. Future iterations of this project could instead assign each of these a location or birth year generated from known averages to be consistent with the rest of the data. Next, I geocoded the data with the ArcGIS Online Geocoding Service, converting the location name (say Lodz, Poland) into mappable coordinates (51.7592, 19.4560). The coordinates were mapped in QGIS, and animated with the TimeManager plugin to appear in their birth year and disappear in their death year. The animations were exported as png files to Photoshop, where they were converted into gif files and added to the website. The animation contains data on over 378 thousand Jewish victims murdered in Auschwitz. Every data point corresponds to an actual person, with accurate representation of their birthplace and pre-war locations, meaning roughly half of the over 700 thousand names in the database were lost. However, what remains is a very accurate mapping of the lives of over one third of the nearly one million Jewish victims of Auschwitz.

